PLAS: Pittco LAN Administration System
======================================

Administrate your LAN party organization using this handy tool. Accept
payments, track users, schedule tournaments, and more.

Authors
-------

* Colin Dean <cdean@pittco.org>

About Pittco
------------

Pittco is the Pittsburgh LAN Coalition. Pittco is a not-for-profit
LAN party video gaming organization based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

 > Pittsburgh LAN Coalition, Inc. ("Pittco") was founded in 2003 to 
 > organize the greater Pittsburgh LAN scene. The mission of Pittco 
 > is to provide a safe, entertaining, and competitive environment 
 > for video gamers of all ages. Since its inception, Pittco has 
 > held thirteen events and has received much attention in the LAN 
 > party community. Its web site is www.pittco.org.

Contributing
------------

We have a GitHub mirror of our private repository set up
at http://github.com/colindean/plas. Github will likely eventually become our
favored repository.

We develop on ruby-dev 1.9.3 and rails 3.0.0. See the Gemfile for 
other stuff we require. 

Colin is currently using ruby 1.9.3dev (2010-08-24 trunk 29084) [x86\_64-darwin10.4.0].

**What we really need are tests.** Colin has not been a good Rubyist and
done proper test-driven development due to the time crunch. We use RSpec and
Cucumber for tests, what few there are.

Download
--------

PLAS is still in heavy development and not ready for public use.

Hell, it's not ready for our use!

Installation
------------

PLAS requires at least ruby 1.9.2 and rails 3.0.0. Target release is 
ruby 1.9.3 or ruby 2.0.0, whichever comes first.

Use
---
Create a user to be able to do anything. As of this writing, the 
permissions system is not yet working.
