PLAS DESIGN
===========

This document aims to describe the design of PLAS by establishing workflows.

User creation and modification
------------------------------

Straightforward. Create the user with the least possible information necessary to create the user.
Ask for the remainder (address, games, etc.) later, incentivize it.

Event creation and modification
-------------------------------

Straightforward. Create an event and give it the necessary information (address, start, end, etc.)

Event ticketing and registration
--------------------------------

A ticket is a prototype for a registration, that is, the admin creates an Event and then creates Tickets for the event. 
When the User wants to attend an Event, he selects a Ticket. 
Upon completion of his order, the Transaction is logged and the controller creates a Registration, or multiple Registrations if it's a ticket package. 
A package Ticket is always comprised of other Tickets, and a Registration purchased as a part of a package refers to its parent Registration.

Group and permission management
-------------------------------

Users belong to groups. By default, there are several groups, but these are the most important: 

* Application Administrators
* Regular Users
* Anonymous

**Anonymous** can view the list of users, tournaments, events, seating map, etc. They can also create an account. This isn't a group *per se*, but is effectively the group for users who are not logged in.

**Regular Users** can do everything Anonymous can, but they can also register, receive gift tickets, sit on the map, join tournaments, etc.

**Application Administrators** have godmode and can do anything to anything.

Future groups for consideration include:
* Event Administrators (create, modify, delete events)
* User Administrators (modify, disable users)
* Tournament Administrators (create, modify, delete tournaments)
* Tournament Reporters (report winners of matches)
* Shoutbox Moderators (delete offensive posts)
* Check-In Administrators (grant free admission, change seating)
* Check-In Workers (indicate that someone has checked in, correct address information)
* Event Administrator (can change event details, add/modify/delete ticket options)

Permissions are strings like 
* users.administrate
* users.checkin
* events.update
* shoutbox.moderate

The **key** thing to understand is the relation between users, user groups, and permissions. A UserGroup has Users and Permissions. Users themselves *do not* have Permissions. A user's permissions are resolved via the UserGroups to which the user belongs.

1. If a user belongs to no groups, he has no permissions.
2. If a user belongs to a group, he has the permissions the group has.
3. A user may have the same permission from multiple groups.
4. Permissions have parent permissions, so assigning a group a permission also gives that group any permission which is a child permission of the permission assigned.

Some objects, such as Tournaments and Event, may eventually have instance-specific permissions. Those will use Permissions, but will point to individual users or point to groups which have the necessary permissions.

It's always **noun**.*verb*.

PLAS Configs (Pcfgs)
--------------------

Pcfgs are instance-specific variables. These variables are kept in the database and are set for a particular installation of PLAS. Examples of candidates for Pcfgs are PayPal vendor information, header titles, and other "set once at installation" variables.

Things which should *not* be put in Pcfgs are PLAS-internal variables, such as the version number or project URLs. These are hardcoded in initializers.

Tournament Workflow
-------------------

When a user creates a Tournament, he gives it a name, description, max teams/
players, and start time. Users can sign up for the tournament, representing 
themselves or their team. When the tournament is started, Participants can 
enter scores (double entry -- winner and loser -- for regular users, single 
entry for tournament administrators). The tournament administrator can declare 
winners for each Match and eventually a winner for the whole Tournament. A 
Tournament is associated with a single event and is associated with that event 
at creation time.

On the backend, PLAS must account for various tournament backend software.

PLAS implements a basic tournament model for simple contests where there are 
no matches, no need to track scoring, and only one winner. This is useful for 
simple deathmatch tournaments or non-gaming events.

However, for more complicated tournaments, PLAS offers an interface to 
[Challonge](http://challonge.com).  The PLAS Tournament API mirrors the 
[Challonge API](http://challonge.com/api), which we consider to be the gold 
standard for lightweight tournament softwares. For more information on how 
PLAS uses the Challonge API, read the [challonge-api gem documentation](https://bitbucket.org/corneldm/challonge-api) 
or simply read through the Tournament controller.
